>> Erik Reinert: Google, so
Google's search backend engine uses
concepts such as monolithic architecture,
service-oriented architecture,
and microservice,
each of which represents stages in
the evolution of backend architectures.
Google has been around for
a while, as we all know, right?
And so Google has adapted with
the technology as it's grown, right?
And in a lot of ways, some of the things
that we work with today are directly
related because of how Google implemented
them in their own systems, right?
And so a good example of
that is the search engine.
Now, [LAUGH] Google's a little bit of a
black box when it comes to the things that
they do.
I couldn't really find an official
Google document on the search engine.
However, what I was able to find
was the original high level
Google architecture diagram for
the original search engine.
And so you can even see, 20-something
years ago when they first made this,
they had a URL server, they had a crawler,
they had a store server with a repository.
They had a URL resolver, and an indexer,
and linking, and document indexing, and
page ranking, and searching,
and sorting, and all of
these other things that eventually got
created into microservices and services.
And distributed and higher scaling and
more distribution and
more complexity as the software and
as the platform grew.
But even this as a start was already
distributed because of the type of
problem that they were trying to solve.
>> Erik Reinert: And finally,
we have Uber, right?
As it expanded worldwide,
Uber transitioned from a monolithic
to a microservice architecture.
Each service, such as ride-hailing, food
delivery, and driver-partner services,
is managed by separated microservices or
services.
This has enabled Uber to scale and
customize its services for
different markets.
So, who here remembers when Uber
started doing food deliveries?
That was crazy, right?
You were so used to using Uber for
ride-hailing, but
they already had half
of the platform there.
They already had the geolocation part.
They already had the hailing part.
All they needed to do was throw
on food on top of it, and
now they have a whole other
market that they're tapped into.
That's another reason why backend
system architectures are so valuable.
And again, this is from Silicon Valley,
but you can pivot, [LAUGH] you can pivot,
and you could try new things.
And that's also what made
Uber a massive company.
They're not just ride-sharing anymore,
they're food delivery and they have
partner services, and you can rent cars
on Uber and all this other stuff, right?
They are, once again, like Amazon,
dogfooding their platform and
finding out multiple ways
to make money off of it.
And that is how you get
to a billion dollars.
That's how you get to a huge company,
is not just doing one thing, but
doing a lot of things really well.
And so
when we look at Uber's infrastructure,
you can see here that they have core
services and WebSocket services.
And for example,
a customer creates a chat contact
which goes to a chat channel manager.
That content is created or
uploaded to a contact service.
The contact is added for
routing to a router, and
then that get pushed to a web,
basically a web server.
That gets sent to an agent state service
for managing agents stay online,
offline, all that stuff.
They have a lower level Kafka service
which handles a lot of these messages.
They have a WebSocket proxy
which then goes to the frontend.
And then that connects to the frontend so
that agents have a real-time
interaction with all these systems.
And then multiple services
are connected through that frontend,
which is the app that we use today.
And again, they're doing a really good
job of looking at what they already have,
their fleets, their infrastructure,
and saying, okay, cool,
this is a way that we can make money.